---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Evaluating Open Source Projects
---

I recently spent time evaluating open source projects so I can jump deeper into one of them! Assessing the fit requires looking at multiple factors - how active is the community? How quickly do maintainers respond? Are there approachable issues for newcomers? After this analysis, I could tell which projects were a better fit for me. I'm excited to immerse myself and see where it leads!

### Exploring Options
I explored the Godot game engine, which my friend raved about. The vision seems really impressive and I'd love to contribute. However, their open issues require more specialized knowledge in the game development field than I have. But who knows, it seems so interesting that I might still take a shot at it one day! 

<!--more-->

Some other projects I evaluated were  Python data analysis libraries like Matplotlib and Pandas. Unlike Godot, I've used them extensively in coursework and personal projects, so I understand them from a user perspective. This foundation means I can provide valuable troubleshooting as issues arise, suggest new features based on my experience, and contribute to the codebase. I'm thrilled to give back to tools that have enabled my own analyses!

### Potential Challenges
The sheer size and complexity of the codebase can be daunting! But I'm up for the challenge. I'll start by digging into specific areas related to issues I'm tackling. Over time, through solving tangible problems, I'll expand my mental model of how all the pieces fit together. While full comprehension won't happen overnight, my understanding will grow with each contribution.

### The Road Ahead
I want to fully engage with the open source community around my selected project. That includes joining communication channels, attending meetings, and using the project myself to deeply understand the user experience. I'm ready to learn and level up through this immersive experience!