---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Jumping Into Pandas
---

As data becomes increasingly central to so many fields, having robust tools for data manipulation and analysis is crucial. That's where the pandas library comes in - a powerful, open-source Python library that has become a staple for working with structured data.

With its intuitive data structures like Series and DataFrames, plus a rich ecosystem of input/output functionality and data processing tools, pandas makes wrestling with messy datasets a breeze. It's no wonder pandas has exploded in popularity and is now deeply embedded into the Python data science stack.

<!--more-->

Given how extensively I've relied on pandas for coursework, personal projects, and internships over the years, I jumped at the chance to contribute to this vital open source project for my class. While gargantuan codebases can seem intimidating, working on community-driven software is an invaluable experience.

### The Initial Setup Struggles
Like many open source projects, getting the pandas development environment properly set up locally was...an adventure, to say the least. Between issues with Python package managers like pip, mamba, and even Docker, every member of our team ran into their own flavor of installation woes.

I battled with the meson build system. A teammate could only get it working on their desktop but not laptop. Another spent days trying to install via pip and Docker before mamba finally worked. It was a configuration cacophony!

Why were there so many setup hurdles? My guess is that the pandas codebase is so massive and integrates with other components like NumPy and Python's internal machinery. Getting all the dependencies and toolchains to play nicely is a delicate task, especially across different machines and OS environments.

But after burning the midnight oil, we persevered and each found a installation method that worked. 

### The First Contributions
With our pandas development environments finally operational, we started digging into the massive codebase to get our bearings. Not gonna lie, it felt pretty daunting initially sifting through the myriad modules, objects, and test suites. 

But the pandas community and core dev team provided excellent guidance and docs for newcomers. We started with some lower-hanging fruit - some documentation issues.

And I made my first pull request (PR) to pandas! I'm excited to keep diving deeper into pandas and encourage you to get involved too!
